---
layout: post
title: Value-Aligned Technology
subtitle: By William James
tags: [Technology, Values, Humanity]
---
# Value-Aligned Technology

Technology is not values neutral. As seen with the advancements of weaponry, it can be used to outcompete another group under competitive evolutionary dynamics. Under “cooperative” evolutionary dynamics can be used to drive convergence upon an evolutionary dominant strategy, indirectly threatening the irrelevance of the groups not utilizing it. With modern forms of conflict, we threaten to debase the materials and energy economy that human civilization is based upon. Through blind participation in competitive dynamics and molochian economy we threaten to use up all of the resources needed to become interplanetary. If we develop technology that does not confer immediate competitive advantage, but forces a behavioral equilibrium, then humanity may still be guided. This writing looks to provide a guide for developing values-aligned technology.

To create technology aligned for the long-term future and large scale humanity I present a three-fold model: (1) Incentive Alignment, (2) Decision-Making and (3) Agential Capacity. These don’t need to all be present in a single technology, but they all need to be distributed across the human coordination and technology stack. If one of the three is missing, then technology will present itself as a perverse driver of human mis-alignment. 

Incentive alignment is the ability for a technology to adjust the incentive-deterrent landscape by which systems act. As a heuristic we want the incentive-deterrent landscape to scale to account for the large scale and long-term. When technologies incentivise short-term, small scale thinking they are driving race-to-the-bottom dynamics, where we want race to the top dynamics. An example of a race-to-the-bottom technology is interest based fiat currency. While the ability to print money allows for the rapid coordination of agency, it will devalue the currency of individuals. Since money is expected to devalue over time, saving it for use in long-term-planning is deterred. Individuals are then incented to gamble their money in the stock market in an attempt to beat inflation. 

As an alternative to interest based fiat currency, some communities are not exploring “hard money”, like crypto-currency. These currencies can be designed to limit the number of tokens created, allowing for them to be saved across time. This saving ability no longer deters long-term planning, and no longer incentivises gambling. The main downside to this technology in terms of incentives is lack of globally backed recognition deters any plans for long-term planning. Assessing how the structure and function of a technology impacts the incentive landscape is an important first step in aligning the values of technology.

If we assume that the global incentive-deterrent is scaled to the large-scale, long-term, then the agents at play still need the ability to act upon them. One could claim noble goals, but without any Decision-Making ability, such noble goals are bottle-necked by strategy. Commonly referred to as wisdom, agents need the ability to strategically generate their decisions. The ability to imbue agents with wisdom can be done via two different approaches, development and emulation. 

It can be increased directly via augmenting the amount of globalized information an agent can process internally via methods of its development. This tends to be driven by increasing the perceptive abilities of an agent, increasing the computational abilities of the individual, or both. As a result of these increases the agent can act upon incentive structures that are more computationally demanding. Wisdom can also be increased by augmenting the effective information processing abilities of the agent via embedding it within an emulation system. An emulation system is a distributed computation network that offsets the demand for local computation via participation in an integrated network. Individual agents can follow heuristics that are subject to error-correction dynamics of their network. Alternatively, another agent can compute the needed wisdom and communicate it to the individual willing to act upon it.

The third component of a value-aligned technology is the augmentation of agential capacity. With noble incentives, strategic decision making, an agent will remain useless if their agential capacity is incapacitated. To impact the agential capacity a technology can increase efficiency of a process, increase the materials, energy and bits available for use, or drive the reallocation of the resources currently distributed across humanity. In assessing augmentation  of agential capacity, the global balance sheet should be considered and designs should limit the amount of fuel thrown upon the fire that is the tragedy of the commons.

In this article we reviewed a three-part model for designing and evaluating technology. To ensure technology is values-aligned, incentive alignment, decision making and agential capacity should all be considered. These components should be identified for new technologies and old ones in use by humanities tech-stack.
