# Developmental Systems and Radical Longevity

In examining radical longevity technology we found that beyonds its first-order effects, it has potential to significantly impact the value landscape. The most profound impact is on the incentive-deterrent landscape. Radical longevity functions to expand the domain of rational self interest to include the very long-term, and by instrumental extension, the large scale of many others. One may choose to view the incentive set innate to biological immortality as a blessing or a curse, but a day will come where we may all bear this burden. Will it be captured by the forces of corrupt perversity, driving humanity to annihilation like the dark elves, the Drow, of R.A. Salavator’s Legend of Drizzt? Or will we establish an order of elves in touch with both the natural world and the potential for responsible innovation? It is time we decide on what our elven futures have in store. For this writing, the term elf and its derivatives refer to the humans of a world with radical longevity technology.  

The Existential Heroism Institute has a audacious name for a reason, radical psychological development is quite an audacious task. The individuals with power and control in a society of radical longevity must be highly developed wisemen. They must be competent in using models of the world, knowing that models are not the world itself. They must strive to improve their understanding of the world using radical empiricism, continuously perceiving and digesting the world around them. I can design some impressive emulation systems, but if I am going to defer authority over my shot at immortality, over my ability to worship God, then they will have to be deemed in both thought and action, to be an Existential Hero worthy of such respect. Anything less is an invitation for utter annihilation of humanity.

All radical longevity does upon humanity’s value structure is immensely expand the domain of radical self interest. Unfortunately, this expanded domain of care does nothing to offset the computational decision making costs, and the resources demands on one’s agency. Without the ability to pay such computational costs, the individual and institutions will have to in effect follow a much narrower set of incentives that are computable.

The only agents that will be immune to this narrowing down, will be those willing to play the fool. Those willing to sacrifice immediate gratification upon acting on a narrow set of incentives, for a longer developmental period in which they resolve to act upon the full incentive set or not act at all. This is the fool's errand, for in factoring in all of the many processions of the future and of other’s, one risks not taking any action at all. If a threat acts upon such an agent before they produce a response, even a short sighted one, then the agent will be harmed, incapacitated, or annihilated. The first key to the development of an Existential Hero, the leader of the elven world, is the willingness to play the fool.

The problem of one’s incentive landscape, ideal and effective, can be better understood as a form of optimization. When one optimizes for a local set of metrics, they do so externalizing other metrics and other systems. This means the strategy that their behavior is based on simply truncates components of the world that their actions affect, either directly or indirectly. The dynamics affected are obscured for the sake of reducing computational load and the elevation of other more narrow incentive-detterrants. The larger world could be impacted in a positive or negative manner, but the acting agent will not know until hindsight is enacted. Why should humanity defer its leadership to those who are, in one sense, computationally lazy? It shouldn’t.

For an individual to develop into an existential hero, they must become competent at strategic decision-making and optimizing for the whole of a system. This appears to require a foundation in mathematics, even if for the long-term effect on structuring one’s thought process. They must also have an understanding of their own functioning as information processing systems, meaning an understanding of analog vs. digital information, alongside the insights of information theory.

If we assume one puts in all of the work to understand their own functionality as a localized information processing system, the next hurdle is to increase the system's scope, the individual's developmental potential. Localized information flow can be considered a large bottleneck in individual development. If one’s society places limits upon the information flow that can be utilized for abstract individual development, then the individual's potential reaches a point where they alone don’t determine it. One can remove the default limits on their own potential by actively opening and maintaining communication channels containing useful information about the larger world. Unfortunately most people go about this in a manner that mislabels “noise” as “signal”. 

To delocalize one’s information processing potential, one needs to develop a filter for distinguishing useful signals from distracting noise. This is where true Existential Heroism is required. One needs to become a student of human nature, understanding not only human’s fear of death, including their own, but becoming a scholar of evolutionary dynamics. Polymath exploration of psychology, sociology, and biology are the bare minimum required for one to have a shot at understanding the world at large. It is only with such an understanding can they begin to open up their perceptions to establish communication channels and process the world in a more globalized manner.

To establish the development of these skills, I advocate for a developmental based sabbath. Wisdom teaching Dungeons and Dragons campaigns. What better way to practice optimizing one’s cognitive process, then with a flavorful fantasy world that removes the anxiety that accompanies the real-life parallels! By taking a break from the stress of each week to practice solving the nested long-term, large-scale problems of a fantasy world, one can develop skills to translate to their emergence as a real life existential hero! Along similar lines, I have played a solid amount of strategic video-games. As long as they do not come from a place of addiction, games like Sid Mier’s Civilization, and Total War, can be considered as fun tools of refining decision making.

If longevity technology will be utilized for the greater good of humanity and the universe, then we cannot accept short-sighted leaders. We need individuals willing to play the fool, willing to gain terrifying self-knowledge of their own computational functioning, alongside an understanding of their own existential angst. We need individuals willing to model the signal of the social world, penetrating all of its noise. We need polymaths willing to master the fruits of science and the wisdom of the ancients. Much more burdensome than Plato’s philosopher kings, humanity needs Existential Heroes to step up and lead humanity.





