---
layout: post
title: Emulation Systems and Radical Longevity
subtitle: By William James
tags: [Technology, Values, Humanity]
---
# Emulation Systems & Radical Longevity
## By William James

In an ideal world every individual would become fully developed, reaching their full potential and mastering every domain of life. Unfortunately this world is riddled with opportunity costs, limited time, energy and other resources. The main issue with developmental systems is that they demand the individual pay a significant cost of development if they are to gain access to the benefits wisdom has to offer. The defining feature of an emulation system is that it allows the individual to emulate the decision-making of someone with more wisdom, without needing to possess that wisdom internally. These individuals may then produce what is functionally “wise” behavior, without ever having to pay the cost of development to adopt such wisdom internally.

Emulation systems are functionally networks that distribute computation across either time or space. Emulation systems have been necessary throughout the history of humanity’s evolution via being subject to environmental constraints, dangers of the world or tribes considered out-groups. If a tribe spends months wisely planning a battle, they could be suprised by an opposing tribe that utilizes a “strike first” principle. Having to spend excess time planning in order to generate wise decisions can be a burden if other groups, or nature, act quicker with sufficient wisdom for dominance. Emulation systems in essence function to generate wise behaviors in a manner that reduces the localized cost of calculation.

Many religions can be considered to function as emulation systems. The pragmatic utility of a faith may even be analyzed by assessing the behaviors it both deters and incentivises. Beyond religion, we distribute wisdom over cultural, governmental, economical, and the technological systems of everyday life. When individuals hijack emulation systems for unwarranted personal benefit, they are significantly undermining the systems designed and evolved to enable wise decision making. 

If we are to release radical longevity without releasing effective human coordination systems, designed with both development and emulsion in mind, then the function of longevity’s positive incentive alignment will be lost. When individuals realize that the long-term, large scale rationally falls within the domain of personal responsibility they will struggle to execute aligned decision-making. If the computational tools are not in place to enable individuals to plan and execute behaviors aligned with the new incentive domain, then they will suffer internal conflict. The internal conflict of having a large incentive landscape, but low ability for acting upon it will generate various emotional responses signaling this internal divide. How will these emotional responses be expressed?

If no new systems are designed to channel the healthy expression of the existential dread that accompanies internal division, then the current systems of channeling emotional expression will actually be amplified. I am talking about the banks, financial services groups and monetary systems that facilitate emotional expression via the pursuit of capital. Behind the emotional regulation these molochian dynamics require exponentiation of the monetary supply and drive dynamics that are venusifying the planet and driving biodiversity loss. I am also talking about the ideologies and media platforms that deter complex sense-making. These polarize individuals, introduce noise, claiming it is actually signal, functionally exchanging the expression of emotional tension for views and time-on-sight. The cost of which is a breakdown in the epistemic commons.

“The science of man has shown us that society will always be composed of passive subjects, powerful leaders, and enemies upon whom we project our guilt and self-hatred. This knowledge may allow us to develop an “objective hatred” in which the hate object is not a human (or country, in cases of war) scapegoat, but something ‘impersonal’ like poverty, disease, oppression, or natural disasters. By making our inevitable hatred intelligent and informed, we may be able to turn our destructive energy to a creative use.” - The Denial of Death, Ernest Becker. 

As Ernest Becker fantasizes, we must use the science of man to ensure that the hate objects of the future are not mere scapegoats. We must also ensure that our emulation and development systems are sincere, aimed at the highest level of cosmic flourishing. The only thing more harmful to humanity than systems designed with stupidity are systems designed with clever nihilism. Will clever nihilism be able to stand up to the weapons of its adversary. If you wish to be an existential hero, fighting against the forces of nihilism, then it is time to prepare yourself for radical longevity, humor and God. 
